# Convert Digital Image to Perler Bead Template
<h3>The ConvertImageToTemplate program allows the user to create a custom Perler bead design by converting a digital image into a printable template. I created this for my final project in CSCI 1115 Algorithms and Data Structures at Southwest Technical College</h3>
<br>
<h4>Why did I build this?</h4>
<p>My children love playing with Perler beads. Often they look up designs online and copy them from the screen. I noticed that one of the pegboards they have is transparent and was likely designed for placing a template underneath it. I thought creating a program that could create custom templates would be a fun and useful project.</p>
<h4>How does it work?</h4>
<p>The names and color values for 52 different beads are defined in the program. By default, all 52 colors are included in the color palette, but the code is easily modified to create a smaller color palette of only a few bead colors. The program reads a 29x29px image file. It combs through the image one pixel at a time, comparing the color values in the color palette with the color value of each pixel. It determines the closest match and stores that information in a multidimensional array. After each pixel in the image has been processed, a custom object is created that includes the design of the image, now converted to the color palette, and a list of all the colors being used and in what quantity. This custom object is then passed to a method that creates a graphical representation of each bead in its appropriate color and location. Each bead is stamped with a color code for added legibility. A list is also created that gives the name and color code for each bead color and the number of beads of that color required to complete the project. The method exports the graphic and list as a PNG file, scaled to print on letter sized paper. If printed correctly, the grid graphic will be scaled perfectly to fit a transparent, 29x29 prong, Perler bead pegboard.</p>
<h4>Noteworthy lines of code?</h4>
<p>The most difficult part of this process was figuring out how to compare the color value of each pixel to a predetermined palette of colors. The process is somewhat convoluted, and I’m convinced that a more efficient process exists given more time and some creativity. That said, the process I came up with is effective and works with both small color palettes and large ones.</p>
